exercises/practice/binary-search/.docs/instructions.md, before:

# Instructions

Your task is to implement a binary search algorithm.

A binary search algorithm finds an item in a list by repeatedly splitting it in half, only keeping the half which contains the item we're looking for.
It allows us to quickly narrow down the possible locations of our item until we find it, or until we've eliminated all possible locations.

```exercism/caution
Binary search only works when a list has been sorted.
```

The algorithm looks like this:

- Divide the sorted list in half and compare the middle element with the item we're looking for.
- If the middle element is our item, then we're done.
- If the middle element is greater than our item, we can eliminate that number and all the numbers **after** it.
- If the middle element is less than our item, we can eliminate that number and all the numbers **before** it.
- Repeat the process on the part of the list that we kept.

Here's an example:

Let's say we're looking for the number 23 in the following sorted list: `[4, 8, 12, 16, 23, 28, 32]`.

- We start by comparing 23 with the middle element, 16.
- Since 23 is greater than 16, we can eliminate the left half of the list, leaving us with `[23, 28, 32]`.
- We then compare 23 with the new middle element, 28.
- Since 23 is less than 28, we can eliminate the right half of the list: `[23]`.
- We've found our item.

Commit message:

Sync binary-search docs with problem-specifications (#376)
There were a few follow-on tweaks to binary-search.

For context, this is part of the project to overhaul all the practice exercises.
You can read about that here:
https://forum.exercism.org/t/new-project-making-practice-exercises-more-consistent-and-human-across-exercism/3943

----

If you approve this pull request, I will eventually merge it. However, if you are happy with this change **please merge the pull request**, as it will get the changes into the hands of the students much more quickly.

If this pull request contradicts the exercise on your track, **please add a review with _request changes_**. This will block the pull request from getting merged.

Otherwise we aim to take an optimistic merging approach.

If you wish to suggest tweaks to these changes, please open a pull request to the exercism/problem-specifications repository to discuss, so that everyone who has an interest in the shared exercise descriptions can participate.

exercises/practice/binary-search/.docs/instructions.md, after:

# Instructions

Your task is to implement a binary search algorithm.

A binary search algorithm finds an item in a list by repeatedly splitting it in half, only keeping the half which contains the item we're looking for.
It allows us to quickly narrow down the possible locations of our item until we find it, or until we've eliminated all possible locations.

~~~~exercism/caution
Binary search only works when a list has been sorted.
~~~~

The algorithm looks like this:

- Find the middle element of a sorted list and compare it with the item we're looking for.
- If the middle element is our item, then we're done!
- If the middle element is greater than our item, we can eliminate that element and all the elements **after** it.
- If the middle element is less than our item, we can eliminate that element and all the elements **before** it.
- If every element of the list has been eliminated then the item is not in the list.
- Otherwise, repeat the process on the part of the list that has not been eliminated.

Here's an example:

Let's say we're looking for the number 23 in the following sorted list: `[4, 8, 12, 16, 23, 28, 32]`.

- We start by comparing 23 with the middle element, 16.
- Since 23 is greater than 16, we can eliminate the left half of the list, leaving us with `[23, 28, 32]`.
- We then compare 23 with the new middle element, 28.
- Since 23 is less than 28, we can eliminate the right half of the list: `[23]`.
- We've found our item.
